.TH "netpanzer" "6" "0.2.0" "Bartosz Fenski <fenio@o2.pl>" "Games"
.SH "NAME"
netPanzer \- an online multiplayer tactical warfare game
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
.B netpanzer [\fIoptions\fP]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
This program is a free (GPL) isometric view real-time tactical game
designed for play across the Internet and over LAN systems. One on one 
games are  possible via direct connect or modem. 
.LP 
netPanzer is designed for FAST ACTION combat -- it is not another resource
management clone. In fact, there aren't any resources at all. Each player
will have many units of different types at their disposal. Players can fight
until their units are destroyed -- then respawn and keep on going.
.LP
The game is real-time, but it's based on quick tactical action and unit
management. Battles progress quickly and constantly; in fact, they never
let up. There is no stop in the action because there is no waiting for
resources to be collected and converted into weaponry. Players can join
or leave  multiplayer games at any time.
.br 
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 
The following options are supported.
.LP 
.TP 15
.B -h, --help
show usage instructions.
.TP
.B     --version
show version information.
.TP
.B -c, --connect=VALUE
directly connect to the specified server.
.TP
.B -d, --dedicated
run as dedicated server.
.TP
.B -b, --bot=VALUE
connect as bot to specific server.
.TP
.B -p, --port=VALUE
run server on specified port. (the server uses TCP and UDP connections)
.TP
.B -g, --debug
enable debug output.
.B     --master_server=VALUE
use the specified master server. You can use 'none' if you don't want to
use master server.
.B     --game_config=VALUE
use the specified file as config file. Only files from the netpanzer's config 
directory can be used.
.B     --protocol
show version of network protocol.
.PD

.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
The original development of netPanzer was done from PyroSoft inc.
The game is currently developed by Matthias Braun, Ivo Danihelka, 
Tyler Nielsen, Vlad Rahkoy and Ingo Ruhnke.
.br 
This man page was written by Bartosz Fenski <fenio@o2.pl> for the 
Debian GNU/Linux distribution (but it may be used by others).
